Apple Computer Company, which was established as a computer company in 1976, changed its name to Apple, and now supplies many products worldwide. Apple created innovative devices and also services. Apple has as many fans as luxury brands, and it is hard to find in IT companies' history.

Apple made one of the first personal computers in the world, "Apple1". Also, they first applied a Graphic User Interface(GUI) to the computer, Macintosh. And it is the most used type of computer at present. Before Macintosh, computers used "Command Line Interface(CLI)" with complicated steps to command.


On the other hand, Macintosh was so easy to use that it has dramatically maximized usability. It is no exaggeration to say that Smartphones are divided into before and after the iPhone. Before the iPhone, smartphones were recognized as professional devices using by such office workers. They had a small screen; therefore, they couldn't provide various applications like these days. Apple completed the perfect Capacitive Multi-Touch Screen through years of research and development. It offered a friendly interface that allows people to operate their smartphones through their fingers' usual movement. In addition, by developing a mobile-optimized Operating System and adding the App Store, they created an environment that developers can make diverse software without worrying about piracy. In just a year or two after launch, the iPhone changed the standard of smartphones itself.

In 2001 Macworld Expo, Steve Jobs, introduced the "Digital Hub" of Apple. He said that people increasingly moved music from CDs to PCs to make their playlists and showed iTunes as the essential Apple software. iTunes Music Store made customers can search and buy one of each song directly. Previously, music sellers were able to earn more form bundles of music, like CDs. However, as customers became able to purchase pieces individually through iTunes, the music industry has been distributing music mainly to single albums rather than selling multiple packages.

To sum up, Apple made many changes in our lives. They invented the first PC and smartphone. iTunes reorganized the music market. Besides technologies, there are also cognitive changes in our lives. We recall Apple the first when we think of "innovation." Despite our concerns about Steve Jobs' death, the Apple myth continues.
