Imagine driving long distances believing in paper maps. You'll have to stay focused and stay alert. And you will find yourself under stress at your destination. However, with the invention of navigation in the 1980s, paper maps are no longer available. People have come to know which roads are blocked, which roads are fast, and even when buses arrive.
There's a satellite on top of all this.

There are some things that humans cannot overcome with technological advances. Natural disasters, diseases are examples. Although humans can't manage zero damage from these things, we can prepare to minimize the damage. It's a satellite that makes it possible to prepare for one of these dangers, the unpredictable weather. In summer in our country, monsoon rains and typhoons are the main risk factors. We can predict the path of this typhoon through satellites. It also helps to identify information about fine dust, which is an increasing problem. Many websites show the degree of fine dust around them and provide behavior patterns accordingly. These results will reduce human casualties and improve people's quality of life, which has led to advantages both at home and abroad.

Satellites changed the frame of driving and traffic. As I said before, people no longer have to rely on maps. All traffic is handled by satellites. With a cell phone, people can move with the information, including the shortest distance, the fastest time, and the lowest fare. Satellites have a considerable impact on public transportation as well as on private cars. 

Today's people no longer have to wait vaguely for buses anymore. If you look at your cell phone, there's a lot of information based on your location. All data, such as when the bus comes and how to get there quickly, is easily arranged. We don't have to worry about GPS technology such as BIS anymore.

We can't ignore the side of technology development. It takes a lot of technology to build satellites. The process of launching this and settling it in orbit will be much more difficult. This process accompanies the development of science. The study of satellites can lead to the study of space. The study of the universe may lead to discovering enormous facts that have yet to be found. This potential holds tremendous value. Not just in one country, but in the whole world.

People think that what we see only in our eyes, like cell phones, is the most practical and innovative. But there are fundamental, more essential satellites above it. These are the things that are substantial and working real. The development of these technologies will open up the infinite potential of the human. This unlimited potential can be a convenient tool for someone or a goal for someone's life.
Whatever it is, it's clear that these technologies have helped human life and will continue to help.
