In February 2020, infectious diseases began to spread around the world. It's a COVID-19 that started in Wuhan, China. Everyone thought coronaviruses maybe like A(H1N1) and MERS, which were supposed to be released and soon calmed down. But it is continuing to reach the end of 2020. Nowadays, wearing a mask when going out is getting used to it, and taking your temperature is becoming common. Let's think about how the world that Corona has changed the world.

First, The structure of space will change. It is being expanded because "social distancing" has already been carried out in social spaces(like theater, cafe). The newly created spaces will be large and have large windows to ensure good air circulation. The same is true at home. Nowadays, we spend more time at home because of working at home and doing online classes. Studying in a room is stuffy and inefficient, so many people will come out to the dining room and living room. The living room will be transformed into a place of work and learning, not rest. And for a while, people who wanted a spacious house used to do "foot-cornered expansion." It could give us a large house, but we couldn't feel the house's nature because the terrace space had disappeared. If the Korona era continues, the frequency of going out will decrease. And space will change so that people can feel nature naturally in their homes.


Second, The scope of technology will expand. Most of all, the economy's structure has changed the most as the "Untact" ( Contactless) society continues. Aviation, tourism, and sports are in a slump, and the technology economy of online markets, media, and telecommunications are soaring. The Coronavirus is spurring a shift to the digital age. In the future, many new technologies in the world will be developed based on digital and Untact.


We all feel intuitive that we can't completely go back to the Pre-Corona. Also, we will all adapt to the changing world and live according to it someday. But if we can think about the world that will change first and prepare for it, we can live a more successful life.
