Today, computers and laptops are standard machines that can be seen anywhere. But computers have completely changed our lives. We buy personal computers for working, watching movies or playing games. The first computer was Eniak, which was created in 1946. The vast computers developed rapidly and became small enough for individuals to use and have become very widespread. These are examples of computers that played an essential role in computer dissemination.

First is the IBM computer. IBM computers became so popular that they are called today's personal computer IBM computer. The official name of IBM's personal computer, which disseminated computers to individuals and homes, is IBM personal computer 5150. But in 1981, when the 5150 was released, Apple's computers were already dominating the market. Therefore, IBM has a different strategy from Apple. IBM unveiled the architecture and software of computers and used existing hardware components such as CPUs and memory. With this open-door policy, IBM PC has become the foundation for all computers except Apple and has created the present computer age.

Second is the Apple computers. Apple was a company that was competing with IBM in 1980. Founded by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, Apple wanted to develop a personal computer rarely seen at the time. It launched its first PC, Apple 1, in 1970, and immediately found the keyboard-integrated PC Apple 2, which has a similar shape. When its launch, Apple 2 became a market-leading PC and began the era of personal computers. However, Apple's PC strategy was different from IBM's. Apple did not disclose its computer structure and design but assembled computers independently. Apple PC has significantly been loved for its unique graphics and high completeness, and it has continued to this day.

Third, it is IBM PC compatible PC. IBM unveiled all of its computer structures when it first launched the pc. Thanks to this, other companies have released IBM PC-based computers. The computers and laptops of companies such as Samsung, LG, Lenovo, and Microsoft are all based on IBM PC. The start of the PC is IBM and Apple, but thanks to IBM's policy, computers have developed rapidly.

In conclusion, computers have changed our lives considerably. I can't imagine a world without computers. Starting with a vast computer like Eniak for the first time, computers have developed rapidly, and we now carry a laptop less than 1kg comfortably. Computers always exist in our lives. Computers have completely changed the world and become indispensable.
