There have been differing opinions on how the autonomous driving car will transform the world. In general, it has been a disputable issue that stimulates debating on the influences of the autonomous driving car since the first autonomous driving technology invented. The majority of people would support that the unmanned vehicle has benefitted us; however, some disagree. Controversially, it involves both positive and negative sides. On a personal note, I firmly believe that the autonomous driving car's advantages are a powerful booster shaping a modern life that solves environmental pollution and parking problems and forms a safer urban environment. There are specific proofs to clarify how self-driving cars will make the world a better place.

First, since most self-driving cars are electric vehicles, they will be able to prevent environmental pollution caused by exhaust gas. In contrast to conventional oil-powered vehicles, electric cars have batteries and motors instead of gasoline engines. There is no need to use oil, so the atmosphere can be kept clean from toxic gases from the oil process and exhaust gases from gasoline use. Even an electric car produces electricity on its own, the fuel that makes it drive. Lithium-ion battery cars produced by Tesla Motors, a U.S. electric vehicle company, use hydrogen to react with oxygen and turn the chemical energy generated from them into electrical power.

Secondly, cars that used to belong to individuals will be turned into public goods. People can order a shared vehicle to move around, just as they call Kakao Taxi or Uber. The supply of public cars offers beneficial opportunities to provide convenience to the mobility disadvantaged, such as the elderly, children, and the disabled, and provide a valuable opportunity to improve the urban environment suffering from traffic jams. For example, if you share your car with others during the time I don't use it, you won't have to stop it. This saves time and effort due to a lack of parking space. Most of the urban spaces that existed for cars, such as parking lots, can be turned into green areas or amenities.

Third, Autonomous driving techniques make movement safer. Most accidents are caused by human mistakes, such as reckless driving and drunk driving. The core of self-driving technology is "driving safer than human driving." In particular, in the era of self-driving cars, "car" accidents will rarely happen. This is because self-driving cars share information. And this brings a significant change to the auto insurance industry. Insurers' profits will increase when accidents begin to decrease, but the prolonged decline in accidents can reduce demand for auto insurance itself.

In conclusion, the advent of autonomous driving cars is a miraculous bliss in human history. As stated above, it has positive effects, such as environmental protection, shared car systems, safer movement. These verify the rationale and justification of the reasonability. For these reasons, it is obvious the autonomous driving cars contribute to upgrading human lives.
