As many people know that the industrial revolution has three periods; nowadays, many academics give the opinions that it has a new era that calls the 4th generation because of IoT technology and artificial intelligence. We get ‘revolution’ when new things that we discover or invented can do our routines faster or much better than us. Moreover, coals and electricity, which equals the 1st and 2nd industrial generation, are just ‘discovered’ from our marvelous features. Although the 3rd and 4th are different, Humans invented the computer and ai technology. They don’t exist after the dinosaurs died. Furthermore, electricity doesn’t need coals to discover, but AI and IoT technologies are indispensable to computers. Now you can notice how a computer is a blessing to our century.

As you can see in the name “computer,” its original function was calculating things for humans. In world war 2, the computer was an exclusive weapon in England. Named “COLOSSUS,” it decodes the German’s secret codes and permited the UK victory. Also, the USA utilizes computers to fertilize desolate scholarships, especially ballistics.

After the millennium, many personal computers (PC) have been found anywhere. Because of these data, the Internet makes the earth much smaller. The Internet gives a lot of information that regular people could not get in the Pre-internet era to ordinary people. For example, before the Internet was mature, the computer helps, mostly military and scholars. But now, it gives much knowledge equally to ordinary people. The Internet makes an even start line in this capitalism, which assets make the uneven start line.

In the future, nobody can affirm how the computer changes, but it indeed gives us more time to do our routines. Cause of high data skills, we can see things under the surface and inspect more easily, like standing on the giant’s shoulder. After the covid-19, we encountered the necessity of improving these technologies. Now, we can get many merits from it; moreover, when we concentrate on developing new skills, the modern world will be waiting for us that nobody can imagine.
