People in the distant past had medical technology. However, their technology was much weaker than it is today. Thanks to the development of medical technologies, we can live for about 100 years, and we can survive even if we were in a severe accident. Other things have changed our lives, but I think medical technology is the most important thing.

First, it has increased human life expectancy. Before developing medical technology, there was a party when someone lived for 60 years or more in Korea. However, nowadays, if someone dies before 60 years old, people say that they died too early. Because of medical technology development, we can live more than 100 years if we are healthy enough. Even there was one Japanese with the longest lifespan in the world, 117 years. 

Second, the mortality rate has been decreasing. As a result of analyzing Korea's health care service outcomes over the past 20 years, only 37.6% of the population died from diseases that can be treated with medical treatment at an early stage compared to the 1980s. The cause of the disease has been identified, so it is possible to reduce death through prevention. Also, advances in medical technology have made it possible to treat conditions that can increase survival rates if appropriate medical services are provided.

Lastly, it helps people with disabilities to enjoy their daily lives as comfortable as possible. Not like doctors in the past, doctors today know way more about the human body. They also see the point where disabilities are suffering and how to relieve pain or resolve uncomfortable things. With science and technology development, many technologies fix uncomfortable body parts and help them move freely.

In conclusion, the medical industry's development has made our lives much more comfortable and helped do things we want, regardless of age and disease. We can see a lot of people living happy lives with medical technology. Because we can't live without medical technology now and live long and healthy, I think the development of medical technology changed our lives.
