Breaking the Wall Between Professional Mechanics and the Public with Arduino

Our preferred issue of nowadays, the 4th industrial revolution, leaves us with a variety of topics to discuss from. Among them, IoT (Internet of Things), robotics, drones, and possibly more technologies share some common grounds. Since they are all related to mechanics, they require hardware and software, which were once a field of professionals only. However, as we enter a new era, there have been many times when even if we are not in a specific area, we must understand at least its tip to solve the matter in our everyday life. Now, this is where 'Arduino' comes in; Arduino is an open-source hardware company and product's name itself. The Arduino offers many types of microcontrollers, boards (or breadboards), an IDE (Integrated Development Environment) for many of the interested users.

Before Arduino was invented, creating an electronic device or even making a simple circuit board proved that he/she is a professional in mechanics. In another way, it also meant that the general people were not familiar nor a friend of mechanism, which is not the case today where tons of machines are conceptualized, built, sold, and consumed by the public. This was possible thanks to the help of Arduino. Arduino's project goal was to create simple, low-cost tools for creating digital projects by no engineers; Arduino sure is easy enough for none engineers to handle. It should be an obvious outcome.

Next, Arduino is easy to use and inexpensive and flexible and supports cross-platform IDE, which makes it able to run on Windows, Mac, Linux OS altogether, resulting in advanced users to take advantage of as well.  Arduino software is open-source, which anyone can access and reconstruct the program from the initial part. Therefore, advanced users are motivated to thoroughly pour in their creativity and talents to create something new, backed up by many supporting programs, such as processing IDE, Scratch (probably many people are familiar with its block-coding development environment), CAD (Computer-Aided Design and Drafting), etc.

To conclude, by the overall benefits throughout newcomers, intermediates, experts, and professionals, Arduino has changed how people think about mechanics. Last but most essentially, we should be aware of the fact that the 4th industrial revolution hasn't stopped but continuing. Not only Arduino but also a variety of products and concepts will change the way we think, behave, or even the way we live. Beware not to get swept away by the massive wave of new things and always be creative to apply them into our everyday lives.
People's efforts have made technology progress, and unmanned systems have begun to be introduced into many areas. The technology even applied to the store's payment system, resulting in the invention of a kiosk. As a result, we have gained many advantages both in time and economy.

First of all, kiosks reduce our time. If an employee receives an order directly, he gets the order and enters it back into the computer to process it. On the other hand, the time is even shorter because the intermediate process was eliminated through using kiosks. Also, it takes less time to receive an order to deliver the product faster to multiple customers. It's good for customers to have shorter waiting times, and it's good for the store to have more orders in a short time.

Next, kiosks are economically profitable. This advantage is also related to the above paragraph. The store offers products faster, so they can earn more income. Also, They can reduce labor costs because they don't need the staff to take orders. Of course, it will cost to install kiosks, but it will be more profitable from a long-term perspective. Significantly when the minimum hourly wage is rising, kiosks reduce the economic burden on shop owners. According to the Financial Consumer Federation, one kiosk can replace the work of three employees.

Finally, kiosks enable non-face-to-face orders that have emerged as COVID-19. In the United States, for example, the strategies against COVID-19 were developed by using kiosks. Coronavirus self-test kiosk opens at L.A.'s Union Station, Massachusetts town to deploy kiosk for bill payments, Illinois school district installs temperature check kiosks for students, and American Airlines introduce touchless check-in kiosks. Thus, kiosks can be a solution for many companies suffering from a global disaster called 'COVID-19'.

In conclusion, kiosks can help prevent the spread of diseases as well as economic and temporal advantages. Kiosks have changed our lives, but they make us expect to give more benefits to us in the future.
