A newspaper is a medium of mass communication that refers to a periodical that delivers news and other information, knowledge, entertainment, advertising to a particular or unspecified person to widely and swiftly convey facts or commentary on events occurring in the world at large. The first published newspaper was 'Einkommende Zeitung' from Leipzig, German, in 1609, and for Korea, in 1883, 'Hanseong Sunbo' was the first published one. With the newspaper's appearance, we were able to access various news from the world faster than before.


First, the appearance of the newspaper produces rapid delivery of information. In the past, the delivery of information often led to oral transmission, which was more likely to spend more time announcing to the public. However, this issue is solved because newspapers are available to many readers at the same time. These days, various information is provided in real-time under the name of breaking news, as the Internet has made newspapers available on the Internet.


Second, newspapers enable accurate delivery of information. Oral traditions can distort information as well as the slow transfer of statistics. This feature is well represented in oral fairy tales, and some of them have more than 500 kinds of small parts in one big plot. However, newspapers print the same contents with a printing press. For that, all readers can read the same content. Therefore, the information is not distorted in the delivery process. Even today, have many platforms to use, people still use newspapers to find accurate information.


Third, the newspapers are valuable as records that best reflect the characteristics of the times, encompassing society, economy, and the culture of the contemporary era. It is a more realistic and concrete testament because it includes not only letters but also photographs. For example, the Times, a well-known U.S. weekly magazine, published a memorial to Yu Gwan-sun in March 2018 under the title of "Overlooked No More: Yu Gwan-sun, a Korean Independence Activist Who Defied Japanese Rule." This paper serves as a reminder of historical events and also as a documentary.

Nowadays, real printed newspapers are considered less vital. The benefits of the advance of newspapers are have already been replaced by Internet newspapers. However, there are still newspapers that were measured to disappear soon a decade ago. Isn't the newspaper already settled into a culture for us?
