Let me start by saying, “Technology is giving life the potential to flourish like never before or to self destruct.” This concept applies to AI too. The primary purpose of AI is to provide machines the capability to outperform us at every cognitive task. AI today is known as “Weak AI”, as it is designed only to perform narrow tasks. However, the long-term goal of many researchers is to create general or strong AI. By inventing revolutionary new technologies, such a superintelligence might help us eradicate war, disease, and poverty. So the creation of strong AI might be the most significant event in human history.

Artificial intelligence enables faster, cheaper, and more accurate legal advice. Watson makes this work feasible. Watson is an artificial intelligence computer system that can answer questions in a natural language format. In the US, young lawyers already do not get jobs. Because of IBM Watson, you can bring legal advice within seconds, with 90% accuracy than 70% accuracy when done by humans.

Artificial intelligence will make human health care perfect. The Tricorder X will be announced this year. This medical device works with your phone, which takes your retina scan, your blood sample, and you breathe into it. It then analyses 54 bio-markers that will identify nearly any disease. It will be cheap, so in a few years, everyone on this planet will have access to world-class medical analysis, almost for free.

Artificial intelligence has made cars that move without human control. Shortly, self-driving vehicles will become popular with the public. People will do not want to own a car anymore. You will call a car with your phone; it will show up at your location and drive you to your destination. You will not need to park it. You only pay for the driving distance and can be productive while moving. It will change cities by transforming former parking spaces into parks. That will save a million lives each year since 1.2 million people die each year in car accidents worldwide. 

Just as there are two sides to a coin, AI can become intentionally benevolent or malevolent if we know how to harness its power. Artificial intelligence can help us live happier, healthier, and more productive lives.
