Today’s world is so different from the past. You can buy things without going directly to the market in just a few decades, work at home, and listen to online classes even if you can't go to school because of the risk of infection. I think of this world as a figure of civilized times. So when is the beginning of civilization, and what has changed this world? I think the criterion for the civilized world and the age of past non-civilization is creating the Internet. The world's first Internet was developed for military use in the United States in 1969 and used in the limited connection. However, since the 1980s, major computer manufacturers have launched network packages to connect their computers. Network researchers and developers have freely transformed and shared sources, making free use possible.

With the development of the Internet, we are beginning a whole new era from the past. Based on the Internet, we used this system to make tools convenient and useful for us. At first, we used the Internet by using a computer, and then we developed a smartphone to make it easier to access the Internet. At present, internet access has become more comfortable as wristwatches, glasses, etc. have permeated our lives more closely.

Secondly, as the Internet became more accessible, apps, or various programs using the Internet were created. At first, they used online messengers to contact each other and receive multiple information using websites. Still, they are being used in more ways than ordering food delivery online, mediating sales of used goods, and measuring a person's health status.

Finally, Internet connectivity will continue to be used in future industries as well. Technologies that are drawing attention as future industries such as artificial intelligence systems and autonomous driving systems will be developed and utilized based on Internet networking.

In conclusion, the Internet's development at this point was the most innovative event ever done, and without it, the world would have gone in a completely different direction. Also, the areas where the Internet can pioneer and create new things will be unpredictable in the future and make our lives convenient and beneficial. Therefore, I think the most crucial change that changed the world is the development of the Internet.
