As technology advances, a lot of things are being developed, and the world is changing. And I think the key to the technology that changed the world is the smartphone. Now that many people are using smartphones, what is the difference from the past? How did smartphones change the world?

First, thanks to smartphones, accessibility to information have increased. Before developing smartphones, it was difficult for people to find information outdoors; there are no books or computers. However, people can now use their smartphones anytime, anywhere, to get the information they want. We can also communicate with people with different languages through the smartphone translation app, and sometimes we can find information about things we have never seen before.

Second, anyone can easily engage in creative/productive activities. As an example, video production was a professional activity. It was because of expensive camera equipment and editing tools. However, nowadays, smartphones are easier to handle than expensive filming equipment, but they are also more capable. Furthermore, there are many great editing apps available for free then anyone can reveal their creativity. Accordingly, people can make their videos more easily.

Finally, smartphones help people to be safe. We can block the gas or electricity in the house through smartphones, close windows, and check the house's situation in real-time through CCTV. Sometimes location tracking services can help save people at risk. And it is possible to record it just in case there is any danger. Things that used to be difficult to prevent when going out in the past are now ready for risk anytime, anywhere, thanks to smartphones.

In conclusion, smartphones have changed our lives very conveniently. Smartphones have helped the new technology spread quickly and made it easy for many people to engage in new activities. Besides, smartphones have lowered the massive barrier of time and space limitations. For these reasons, I think that 'smartphone' is the thing that changed the world.
