What is one thing that has changed the world? - 
The Advancement in the Medical Industry

Human beings have been blessed with the development of the medical industry, which our history is proving. After the 3rd industrial revolution, the medical techniques' level and quality were escalated promptly by lots of experts in the medical industry or science. It is no exaggeration to say that people don't need to thwart with anxiety about not being treated and early death. There are lots of evidence to demonstrate the effect of medical development.

First, many people who used to suffer from incurable diseases and serious illnesses have been saved through vaccines or new drugs. Many viruses such as Smallpox, Measles, and Polio made thousands of people perish now eradicated because many very skilled specialists did countless examinations and, hence, succeeded in creating those vaccines and drugs. The future of medicine development is optimistic, assuring acute diseases such as cancer, diabetes, stroke, and dementia can be cured.

Second, the operation processes have been progressed a lot for scientific enhancement or propagation prevailing worldwide in the last few decades, which can save surgery time and human resources. Thanks to disseminating the qualified operation processes, the cost to be needed for an operation has decreased. It makes for patients and his families to reduce the burden of surgical procedure and rehabilitation.

Finally, the medical industry's advancement made human life expectancy, the level of health heightened exceptionally in history. In medieval or modern times, it was expected for people to live to be 40 or 50, even if they do live a long life. In contrast, the way to longevity is getting wider and wider toward human living in contemporary society. Being alive for an extended period deserves to be called benediction was given to human beings. The medical industry's exploitation and progression, which let people have a well-built immune system, made it possible that the overall level of health has been intensified.

In conclusion, medical progression attributes human beings' welfare, especially by protecting people from numerous viruses and keeping them healthy. The development of the medical field is occurring even at this moment and keeps expanding