Just as the number of applicants for civil servants’ exams is increasing day by day and fewer teenagers are starting their own businesses, our country is only forcing children to dream stable. But is it really good for children to have only stable dreams? Maybe adults are just taking away the children’s opportunity to achieve something by worrying in advance about failures that may not happen.

There are many difficulties in adolescence. One of the difficulties that teenagers face is the gap between the ideal and the reality. When you think about when people were young however, there must be times when people had a huge dream, too. In this context, a question arises. Should children dream big? Through various experiments conducted so far, I can affirm that children should have a big dream, even if it is unrealistic.
The first reason why children should dream big is, preventing them from dream big is preventing their creativity and potential abilities. Adolescence is a time of self-forming. In childhood, children develop their abilities and talents gradually within the social community. It’s about finding what fits for themselves as they shape their dreams, and not letting this happen is like blocking children’s potential abilities. It is not right to regard failure as just ‘what one should not do’ and to prevent children from thinking creatively and developing abilities.

Secondly, children are more accomplished when they make important choices on their own, such as setting what they want or goals.( Potter,1996,p.23) As mentioned above, childhood is an important time for a child to form self. It is also the time to be the first to express what one wants and to make plans for the future. Even if the dream is unrealistic, the child will try hard, so the child will achieve a goal, even if it’s a first step for the dream. This is the second reason why parents should support their children’s dreams.

The next reason is because children learn how to take responsibility while growing up. Children feel responsible for their success and failure.(Ziegert et al.,2001). Parents are not the people who cut off a child's goal and effort just because his/her dream is unrealistic. They are people who help children to control their behavior to not be too frustrated or too excited. Of course, people may say that cutting off children’s dream helps children not to feel burdened by their actions. But it's taking away the opportunity for a child to move forward. Children should dream and learn about responsibility.

Also, children can find strength and weakness through their dreams. They try to achieve their dreams no matter how unrealistic their dreams are. Suppose a child who studies science hard because to be a scientist. When the child was studying science and found out that him or herself is not good at it, did the child really failed? No. The child only realized that there were areas in which the child could do better than science. If someone had stopped the child’s dream by saying, "Scientist is a hard dream to achieve”, the child wouldn't have known that there are areas which can do better than science. As we can see, children find their strengths and weaknesses by dreaming.

Lastly, children need to be encouraged. Parents should support and encourage their children whatever they want to do, unless that is not a bad thing. In this support, children feel protected and can self-from better. Parents are not people who don't let their child feel the fear of failure. Sometimes they give advice to their children, sometimes they encourage their children, and they help them grow up right. Some people might think that children will be frustrated when they see reality far from ideal. For instance, let's think about this: A child want to be a president. If the child could not be a president as growing up, is the kid likely to be frustrated? Children just need confidence from their parents' encouragement.

In conclusion, children learn how to find what they want, how to develop their own abilities, how to achieve what they want, and how to take responsibility through dreams. Is it parents’ role to prevent their child from dreaming to prevent them from failure? That is not the way how it works. In short, If parents don't let their children dream freely to prevent their children from failing, it is blocking recognizing themselves, developing their abilities, and learning how to take responsibility. Therefore, that is, hindering their children's ‘growth’. For these reasons, it is natural and proper to give children a chance to give them a dream freely.
