Entering highschool and university, which one affected positively in your life? Maybe many people have various thought about this. Somebody will say that highschool is better than university. However, I think my life has been better since I entered Soongsil University. Freedom of class, chance, and vacation are main evidence why I claim this opinion.

First, I can sign up classes that I want to listen. When I went highschool, I used to spend fixed schedule day by day. This had given me stress that I must study every subject. However, now I can take classes that I really want. It does not give stress to me anymore. Also, I can schedule my class effectively, so I do not have to wake up early. It has improved my life quality and given me happiness.

Second, there are many chances to participate activities. In highschool, I did not use to join various activities because there were not many chances. However, there are many things like club, meeting, student council in the university. This will grow up my ability and be precious material about my future job. Furthermore, I have met many people who different from me since I entered the university. This allows me to share ideas with many others. Also, it gives a chance to look back on myself and makes me become a better person.

Finally, university’s vacation is longer than highschool. Before I entered university, I used to spend short vacation. Thus, I always gave up to take enough time to relax in vacation. However, because university’s vacation is over 60 days, I will get enough time this year. I think I will have a time to recharge myself while traveling where I have never been in this summer. Besides, long vacation gives me chances to practice self-development like studying japanese or preparing license. These chances will help me build up my various knowledge.

To summarize, I would say that my life has turned in a good ways since I came to university. Because I can decide my schedule freely, and I can join many group activities. Also, I can spend various times through long holiday.