Compare to 100 years ago, so many organisms were extincted because of global warming. Unfortunately this misery is ongoing. For example, In North Pole, There are 1600 polar bears in 2004, but now, There are only 900 polar bears left because of global warming. Surprisingly, we can prevent global warming with simple efforts. I will tell you 3 ways to prevent global warming. By recycling, decreasing trash, and replacing a disposable things.

Already, people know that we should recycle our trash. But many of them don’t know recycling properly. For example, When you throw away bottles after you drink, You think just put them in plastic wastebasket. It is good to trying recycle but It’s only half done. You should throw away remaining drink and wash them. That’s the right recycling of bottles. Like this, each goods have different right recycling methods. We have to know them to prevent global warming.

Also, recycling is effective but more important way to prevent global warming is decreasing trash. There’s so many goods with overpacking. Think about when you buy some apples in mart. Apples are packed by styrofoam, and also Styrofoam are packed by boxes. You only buy some apples, but styofoam and boxes are followed. If you get apple gift. You will get those trash plus with plastic bag or more boxes. Not overpacking culture should be generalized to prevent global warming.

So many people including me don’t use thumblr, even they eat coffee frequently. Also, people use wooden chopstick, paper cup and plastic straw frequently. We use disposable things because they are convenient. Using disposable things makes lot of trash. So it can speed up the global warming. Therefore we should use alternative goods to prevent global warming even they give us little uncomfortable.

Damage from global warming are very big. Many creatures will be extinct because of high temperature. And abnormal climate, natural disaster will be increased too. If we don’t care about global warming, gobal warming will be getting worse. Now we should recognize sevetriy of global warming and practice ways that I told to prevent global warming to save our world 
