These days, some smartphones and TVs can be folded and bent. We refer to such devices as 'flexible devices.' People are beginning to pay attention to innovative designs and make it easier to carry devices thanks to flexible technology. If this technology advances further, there will be a time in the future to be seen in movies that make display clothes. So how is this flexible technology possible? The key is OLED displays. The world-changing 'OLED display' has these advantages.

First of all, the quality is better than the previous display. The conventional LCD is a method in which light emitted from the backlight is adjusted through several layers to display the screen. However, each pixel can be turned off and on freely because OLED glows on its own with organic light-emitting diodes. These features allow for a perfect black color, which makes the screen's quality much clearer enough to implement a color close to natural color.

Second, the design is free. Because OLED is a self-lighting material, it is composed of TVs with just one panel without needing backlight and many layers. Therefore, the display's thickness can be skinny and bent, making it essential for flexible technology.

Third, the reaction is fast. Among several layers of LCD, the liquid crystal acts as light control. When voltage is given to the liquid crystal, the shape of the fluid changes, and the direction of light passing through the next layer also changes, adjusting the amount of color on the screen. However, because OLED is self-lighting without using a liquid crystal layer, time to give voltage to the liquid crystal and adjust light isn't necessary, and the color is immediately visible, resulting in rapid response speed.

Thanks to these features of OLED, we can expect better display technology to develop. Currently, QLED displays that use other materials are continually being researched and developed. In the future, we hope that display technologies that are beyond imagination will be born.
