Every day thousands of airlines crisscross around the globe transporting travelers to their destinations. They fly without a thought to how significant the ability to take the skies is. Imagine trying to get to another continent just 120 years ago; it would have been a long and tedious voyage on a ship. Shipping was instrumental in transporting goods and people worldwide, yet the average citizen could rarely take advantage of it. Contrastively, most people, now take air travel for granted. But in fact, airplanes have changed the world significantly.

First of all, airplanes have played an essential role in the social life of so many people. After this marvelous invention, people became more socially interactive. They have been able to explore the world and travel to various places. Moreover, on other occasions, people have also got the chance to reconsolidate with their extended families and beloved ones who live far away.

Secondly, from an economic aspect, Airplanes, without a doubt, have facilitated business deals from all over the world abundantly. Importation and exportation have become easier between distinct countries. Therefore, the economy inevitably has improved to a greater extent. Not to mention how people have been able to launch different kinds of businesses in various countries. Speaking of employment, the airline industry, at any given time, supports approximately 64 million workers worldwide, a testament to how airplanes have changed the world.

Finally, aviation has also influenced politics drastically. As politicians have created various relationships on a broader aspect, they have been able to discuss critical issues that sometimes, unfortunately, might lead to war and luckily could lead to peace. In any case, political interaction has increased worldwide.

The impact of the airplane on the 20th century is beyond measure. Its advent not only solved a long-studied technical problem but also helped create an entirely new world. Speculation on what that world would be like began with our first tentative leaps into the air.
