The smartphone revolution triggered by the advent of the iPhone is a historical event that has changed the paradigm of the information and communication industry and the way humans communicate. It combines the advantages of a mobile phone and a personal digital assistant, which has the function of a mobile phone and has a data communication function, enabling e-mail, web browsing, Internet shopping, or banking. It is equipped with broadcasting services such as TV and radio, camera, camcorder, MP3 function, radio function, and can write documents such as word processors and Excel. In other words, after the advent of smartphones, a world has come where you can do a lot with just a cell phone.

First of all, many devices have become useless because smartphones can perform various functions. Those who carried MP3 players to listen to music and digital cameras to take pictures were enthusiastic about smartphones as they solved everything with just one device. Although smartphones are relatively expensive, existing products have been removed from the market as they have sold like hotcakes. Video player PMP, electronic notebooks, and electronic dictionaries have almost disappeared, and digital camera, navigation, calculator, recorder, flash, game console, and radio have managed to keep up their names today. Besides, non-electronic products such as albums, alarm clocks, calendars, notebooks, diaries, hearing aids, and advertising leaflets have also been pushed away from the public's attention by smartphones. In other words, smartphones have broken down the market for more than 30 products.

Secondly, modern people's obsession with 'should belong to the social media network' causes extreme stress and antipathy to the information society itself. Many people have decided not to use smartphones voluntarily, but the various invisible discrimination they have to endure is also formidable. There are a few moments when it is hard to participate in daily conversations, and many people are treated as 'original poets' just because they do not use smartphones. The over-communication of smartphones creates problems by sharing too much information, too many people, too quickly, and all-around. The more powerful a medium with this speed and influence gets, the greater the risk of the rapid spread of incorrect and distorted information in society. In other words, the medium developed for better communication is causing a deadly disaster of communication.

To sum up, smartphones are now penetrating our lives and changing our lives in many ways. Smartphones have removed many devices and are causing side effects. Smartphones are phenomenal media. But has it changed our lives dramatically and positively enough to be called the 'smartphone revolution'? Therefore, to develop into a wise society, it is necessary to set the direction for smartphones and take appropriate solutions.
