Today's movie is a representative type of culture. You can watch movies anytime, anywhere, through various platforms such as 'Netflix,' 'Watcha,' and 'Seezn' as well as movie theaters. So how was the film made? The birth of the film began with a kind of toy using optics. The desire to visually record and observe the elements of reality was the primary motivation. As the pictures start to move, they have a duration, and various contents or methods that make up the time are beginning to be required. And the film as these works of art influenced our lives.

First, by visualizing the story, the message of meaning became clear. Previously, the creators' intention was likely to be distorted because what they wanted to tell us was delivered through limited and inconvenient ways of written and oral versions. There have been many variations in the story as the understanding of the work has changed depending on the reader's experience or audience. However, the film's appearance has not only allowed the audience to deliver accurate images but also various nonverbal elements and production techniques to convey the creator's intentions.

Secondly, films have helped develop human creativity by embodying fantasy as real life. For example, if you write stories about aliens, even if you draw pictures and writing alone, you will not explain what's new. However, if you make a story about aliens with movies, you can express many things, such as aliens' appearance, their gait, their way of speaking, their language, and so on. It will also be more accessible for the audience to accept new things. Therefore, both creators and audiences can show their creativity and continue to develop by recording these things.

In conclusion, movies have made meaning clearly by showing reality as it is without distorting it. It has also become a medium for realizing infinite imagination through intentional transformation. This benefit has served as a source of ideas in various fields, such as technological development and art development.
