How has the washing machine changed the labor market?

A washing machine is a huge time saver compared to hand washing. It is simple. You just load clothes into the machine and click the button. That's all. People can reduce the physical effort needed to wash clothes. A washer allows you to have free time during works. The public benefit of washing machines has changed our lives and the labor market by giving an extraordinary edge that women could work and get a job instead of a housekeeper.

In almost every country globally, men are more likely to participate in labor markets than women. According to The Our World In Data Based on OECD, the proportion of female participation in labor markets was 20% of total women in the United States. That's why the boundary of indeed separated works in a house, such as washing dishes and fixing a house, visibly appeared at the beginning of the 20th century.
However, the growth in participation had dramatically soared until the 1970s after World War 2. Washing machines as a single factor wouldn't completely change the world, but they created new opportunities to save time in a female's life.

The benefits of machines are that women and girls could learn from school and get a part-time job. Hand washings needed to go forward a so far stream from home and smashed the clothes for a few hours. It was difficult for the female to wash those of them in bad weather, either. After the invention of the machine let them free, they could have free time, for example, going to school to learn and making money by going to the workplace, it means that women could have the power to affect society. As women gained experience in the labor force, they increasingly saw that whey could balance work and family.

Some women began to attend college and graduate school with the expectation of working. In 1958 Mary Jackson became the first African American female engineer to work at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration(NASA). She analyzed data from wind tunnel experiments and real-world aircraft flight experiments at the Theoretical Aerodynamics Branch. She was a member of the Apollo Group to reach the air and go to Moon. The foremost female's example shows that women have changed the world by participating in the labor market instead of housework.

The alternative is still giving other opportunities to women in the labor market these days. In a developing country like Uganda, Indonesia, Bolivia, the highest number of women's housework shows a female-to-male ratio in the workforce. The washing machine probably helps them out to become educated women and participate in the labor force.
