Hello, my name is seokhun who is attending Software Engineering at Soongsil University. Hello, my name is Jeongu who is attending Global Media at Soongsil University. And we want to talk about an important historical event in Korea.
Many countries have written history through various events. Then it has affected the times that we live in. Korea is one of them, there are so many historical events from the past to the present. This long history of Korea shows us a unique culture, customs, and characteristics. Then, which of the recent events has left a big meaning in many ways in Korea? Although there are various events, this time we want to talk about candlelight vigil. Because candlelight vigil is special in many aspects of Korean histories. Therefore, we will take a brief look at the history of the Korean candlelight vigil and talk about the characteristics of it.
First of all, let us see the history of the candlelight vigil in Korea. Do you know when it started in Korea? The first of it was in 1974, a prayer meeting from the cathedral. Since then, the vigil has been held with various topics. Besides, in 2016, it had the democratic consequence of the presidential impeachment. Of course, it does not just leave a historical meaning. Because it has become a new and unique culture in Korea. Why is that? The following two factors are the reasons: peaceful and media influence. Don’t you want to know more about these? Jeongu will tell you more information about them.
As Seokhun said, I’m going to talk about what makes Korea’s candlelight vigil special. The first reason is that it is like a peaceful and exciting festival that everybody can enjoy. Millions of people gather, and it looks like one huge festival. Citizens gather and protest about unfair and unreasonable social problems by using a candle without violence. At the same time, singers perform and give people courage. Also, citizens do unique and original performances like giving a speech or wearing costumes and others. People can make their voices and satirize social problems in their way. Due to this sophisticated culture, men and women of all ages can participate. Even the babies and doggies enjoy too. 
Another feature of present-day Korea’s candlelight vigil is it is strongly affected by digital media. Through the internet, social media, and various forms of news, information about big events spreads quickly and widely. People can get this information and join the vigil no matter where they are. Even overseas Koreans come to Seoul or hold a demonstration where they are living. In the site of the vigil, you can also feel the power of digital media. The scene is live broadcasted so people who do not go can watch and support. Not only the press but also citizens take a picture, record videos, and broadcast live by using personal media. During and after the vigil, tons of data about vigil are uploaded on Instagram, YouTube and more.
To summarize, we have talked about Korea’s candlelight vigil. It has affected Korean society for 40 years to protect civil rights. Also, we have said that there are some special things about it. One of them is non-violent but enthusiastic. People can individually express their voices without force. Another reason is that the vigil has been influenced by digital media largely. Millions of people around the country can participate in the vigil because of the internet. For these reasons, the candlelight vigil shows Korea’s unique identity. I am so proud that our country has that culture. Because it is one of the great cultural properties of Korea. In other words, it is enough for cultural values from regardless of political inclinations. Therefore, we should continue to preserve and develop it. Have you ever participated in this rally? If you have not participated in it, I would recommend that you participate once.