After the days when everyone was equal in collecting, power and identity were created as a means of human-production activities. To justify a power, myths emerge with the advent of God. And with the advent of the King, who was given authority by God, medieval sewing society emerged. The old power, which was mainly dominated by God and religion, collapsed with the bourgeois' emergence, putting forward the new power centered on rationality. The French Revolution and the British Revolution led to the downfall of the monarchy and democracy after trial and error.

Democracy is a political system with institutions that allow citizens to express their political preferences, have constraints on the executive's power and guarantee civil liberties. In an autocracy, political choices cannot be described, and citizens are not guaranteed civil rights.

People in democracies are healthier.
The chart below plots each country's child mortality against its Democracy Score for the year 2015. We see that few autocratic governments enjoy child mortality rates under 10 per 1,000. In contrast, democracies scoring seven or more often enjoy child mortality rates below ten or even 5 per 1,000.
Here we have considered only child mortality, but a broader analysis of countries' health outcomes would also show that good health is more generally linked with political freedom.


Democracies are better at protecting human rights.
The right to vote and determine who holds political power is, in itself, a fundamental right. And this right is, by definition, upheld and protected by all democracies. But of course, there are many other human rights. Are democracies also better at protecting these other human rights?

The Human Rights Protection Score focuses on the protection of the physical integrity of citizens. It mainly considers torture, government killing, political imprisonment, extrajudicial executions, mass killings, and disappearances.

The chart below plots each country's Human Rights Protection Score against its Democracy Score. There is a clear positive correlation. Countries with high Democracy Scores also tend to have high Human Rights Protection Scores. Indeed, except for Singapore and Oman, every country whose Human Rights Protection Score exceeds 0.5 has a Democracy Score as a democracy.

Mulligan, Gil, and Sala-i-Martin investigate the link between democratic rule and human rights protection in a sample of 121 counties controlling for other important variables. The authors find that more democratic countries are less likely to execute, regulate religion, or censor the press.

In conclusion, Neoliberalism, which values economic value first and values financial freedom, causes problems such as collectivism, camp theory, and top-down. This is not a problem caused by the political system of democracy, but by the deterioration. To solve this problem, we need to make an effort to reduce the gap between the two sides by creating a forum.
