There have been four industrial revolutions in human history, 1st to 4th revolution. We call them "revolution" because they have changed human life dramatically. The steam engine's invention that alternated the human workforce triggered the first revolution and the creation of oil and electricity have led the second revolution. Computers have activated the third revolution. Big data,  and A.I  have prompted the fourth revolution. I think there is a common thing through industrial processes. It is a machine. The main idea in those is how to use and make mechanisms to function more efficiently than humans. In my perspective, what changed the world is the machine.


First of all, the machine has enabled humans to build bigger and more complicated structures in less time. The devices can conduct labors, more sophisticated and more labors required, in much fewer time than humans can do. Large machinery like bulldozers, backhoes, forklifts, and cranes have played a significant role in the construction field.


Furthermore, the apparatus has given humans composure to progress entertainments. Advanced technology in appliances has allowed spare time to create amusements. For example, consumer appliances like washing machines or vacuum cleaners reduced households and diverse enjoyment that specifically has benefited women. Increasing downtime improved the quality of human life.


Lastly, mechanical contrivance has altered the principal human life on the side of the job. Before the industrial revolutions, the chief manufacturing was agriculture. Numerous new occupations related to mechanism replaced status that preexistent trend of business. The shifts between primary, secondary, and tertiary industries show this flow well.


In conclusion, the machine tool technology did a marvelous job in humans' structural civilization, the trait of life, and the mainstream of career. In the future, the ability to use the gadget in various, efficient ways will be a prime key that takes the fourth industrial revolution and on.
