The whole world didn't know Korea very well. But the world is increasingly interested in our country through K-pop. 'Do you know K-pop?' is changing to 'How much do you like K-pop?'. K-pop is a primary cultural industry of the Korean Wave, targeting Korea and foreign countries. This cultural industry is creating a K-pop craze beyond Asia to Europe and the Middle East. I think K-pop is changing the world in that it has made the whole world excited, changed the perception of our country, and made us enjoy Korean pop music. There's concrete evidence of how K-pop changed the world.

First, K-pop makes our country a new wave that leads the world. The countries that did not know Korea got to know Korea through K-pop and became interested in Korean music culture. This helped to shape our image and also to make our economy more active. For example, countries that challenge industries by benchmarking Korea are increasing. Many people are trying to learn and take as role models from idols that perform sharp group dance and actively interact with fans and want to belong to Korean agencies. This shows that K-pop is the main in leading to the future music market.

Second, it creates a situation where everyone can be together. The fandom culture was created to know more about the singer you like and support them. Each idol group has formed a fandom to communicate with fans through SNS, V app, and YouTube, promoting their songs and sharing their joy. Therefore, singers repay with more energetic activities. It creates a situation where everyone can enjoy together in any country, making the world feel as if it is one. For example, during a difficult time with Corona these days, we hold a concert through YouTube Live and provide a chance to meet our fans directly through video. This conveys the hope that the whole world is in a difficult situation, but we can overcome it together.

Third, there has been a change in the media market. K-pop introduced singers through new media and jumped into existing pop music. Public relations activities through official channels have made it possible for many countries to enter the market. For example, BTS, who gets on the Billboard chart and is making the nation shine, has widely promoted by the use of strategic new media. After touring Central and South America as a promotional tool, and actively engaging in influencer activities, entry into the U.S. market has been successful.

In conclusion, K-pop is a big craze that will change the world of music. As mentioned above, a new wind is bringing changes to the media market and creating unity. So, I can be sure that K-pop is becoming a global culture.
