Biotechnology is the study of developing and researching the technology to use human life using materials produced by organisms based on life Science knowledge. Biotechnology began by copying the structure and function of living things and creating useful materials by applying the process. This biotechnology has made human life changes for a long time, and it continues to change the world.

First, the first example of biotechnology changing the world is the development of medicine. There are typical examples: They are vaccines and penicillin that each made by Pasteur and Fleming. Vaccines are medicine that weakens the pathogen and inject it into the human body, thereby creating immunity against the disease. Penicillin is what we commonly call antibiotics, and the development of vaccines and penicillin has made humans protect us from various diseases. Recently, the human race is again borrowing the power of biotechnology against COVID-19. Biotechnology will make a significant change in the world also if the medicine that counters the COVID-19 develops. 

Next, we can refer to GMO as an example of biotechnology changed the world. GMO stands for Genetically Modified Organism. GMO is a creature with new properties that don't exist in existing organisms by inserting genes from other organisms into existing ones. GMOs have led to a rapid increase in human food production. Plants became stronger in insect pests, and grain eggs were larger. For this reason, human food quality has improved, and production has increased, so it is helping to solve hunger problems.

Finally, biotechnology has brought significant changes to criminal investigations. There are always traces of criminals at the crime scene. The most significant role in arresting criminals is saliva and hair, which are part of their bodies. Using a small amount of DNA, we can identify a person. Since biotechnology was used in criminal investigations, crime rates have decreased significantly worldwide. 

Currently, we are using biotechnology in almost every field: medical, agricultural, and livestock industries, food, chemicals, environment, energy, and resources. We don't know the direction that biotechnology will lead our lives in the future, but it will undoubtedly be a significant factor in changing the world.
