I would like to thank the Secretary General of the United Nations for inviting me to be part of the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women.

This is truly a celebration － a celebration of the contributions women make in every aspect of life; in the home，on the job，in their communities，as mothers，wives，sisters，daughters，learners，workers，citizens and leaders.

It is also a coming together，much the way women come together every day in every country.

We come together in fields and in factories.

In village markets and supermarkets.

In living rooms and board rooms.

Whether it is while playing with our children in the park，or washing clothes in a river，or taking a break at the office water cooler，we come together and talk about our aspirations and concerns.

And time and again，our talk turns to our children and our families.

However different we may be，there is far more that unites us than divides us.

We share a common future.

And we are here to find common ground so that we may help bring new dignityand respect to women and girls all over the world－ and in so doing，bring new strength and stability to families as well.

By gathering in Beijing，we are focusing world attention on issues that matter most in the lives of women and their families; access to education，health care，jobs and credit，the chance to enjoy basic legal and human rights and participate fully in the political life of their countries.

There are some who question the reason for this conference.

Let them listen to the voices of women in their homes，neighborhoods，and workplaces.

There are some who wonder whether the lives of women and girls matter to economic and political progress around the globe.

Let them look at the women gathered here and at Huairou － the homemakers，nurses，teachers，lawyers，policymakers， and women who run their own businesses.

It is conferences like this that compel governments and people everywhere to listen，look and face the world's most pressing problems.

Wasn't it after the women's conference in Nairobi ten years ago that the world focused for the first time on the crisis of domestic violence？

Earlier today，I participated in a World Health Organization forum，where government officials，NGOs，and individual citizens are working on ways to address the health problems of women and girls.

Tomorrow，I will attend a gathering of the United Nations Development Fund for Women.

There，the discussion will focus on local － and highly successful － programs that give hard－working women access to credit so they can improve their own lives and the lives of their families.

What we are learning around the world is that if women are healthy and educated，their families will flourish.

If women are free from violence，their families will flourish.

If women have a chance to work and earn as full and equal partners in society，their families will flourish.

And when families flourish，communities and nations will flourish.

That is why every woman，every man，every child，every family，and every nation on our planet has a stake in the discussion that takes place here.

Over the past 25 years，I have worked persistently on issues relating to women，children and families.

Over the past two－and－a－half years，I have had the opportunity to learn more about the challenges facing women in my own country and around the world.

I have met new mothers in Jojakarta，Indonesia，who come together regularly in their village to discuss nutrition，family planning，and baby care.

I have met working parents in Denmark who talk about the comfort they feel in knowing that their children can be cared for in creative，safe，and nurturing after－school centers.

I have met women in South Africa who helped lead the struggle to end apartheid and are now helping build a new democracy.

I have met with the leading women of the Western Hemisphere who are working every day to promote literacy and better health care for the children of their countries.

I have met women in India and Bangladesh who are taking out small loans to buy milk cows rickshaws，thread and other materials to create a livelihood for themselves and their families.

I have met doctors and nurses in Belarus and Ukraine who are trying to keep children alive in the aftermath of Chernobyl.

The great challenge of this Conference is to give voice to women everywhere whose experiences go unnoticed，whose words go unheard.Women comprise more than half the world's population.

Women are 70% percent of the world's poor，and two－thirds of those who are not taught to read and write.

Women are the primary caretakers for most of the world's children and elderly.

Yet much of the work we do is not valued － not by economists，not by historians，not by popular culture，not by government leaders.

At this very moment，as we sit here，women around the world are giving birth，raising children，cooking meals，washing clothes，cleaning houses，planting crops，working on assembly lines，running companies，and running countries.

Women also are dying from diseases that should have been prevented or treated: they are watching their children succumb to malnutrition caused by poverty and economic deprivation: they are being denied the right to go to school by their own fathers and brothers: they are being forced into prostitution and they are being barred from the bank lending office and banned from the ballot box.

Those of us who have the opportunity to be here have the responsibility to speak for those who could not.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so very much for being here. I love you all, too. Last night I congratulated Donald Trump and offered to work with him on behalf of our country. I hope that he will be a successful president for all Americans.

 This is not the outcome we wanted or we worked so hard for, and I'm sorry we did not win this election for the values we share and the vision we hold for our country. But I feel pride and gratitude for this wonderful campaign that we built together. This vast, diverse, creative, unruly, energized campaign. You represent the best of America, and being your candidate has been one of the greatest honors of my life.



I know how disappointed you feel, because I feel it too. And so do tens of millions of Americans who invested their hopes and dreams in this effort. This is painful, and it will be for a long time. But I want you to remember this. Our campaign was never about one person, or even one election. It was about the country we love and about building an America that is hopeful, inclusive, and big-hearted. We have seen that our nation is more deeply divided than we thought. But I still believe in America, and I always will. And if you do, then we must accept this result and then look to the future. Donald Trump is going to be our president. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead. Our constitutional democracy enshrines the peaceful transfer of power. And we don't just respect that. We cherish it. It also enshrines in other things: the rule of law; the principle we are all equal in rights and dignity; freedom of worship and expression. We respect and cherish these values, too, and we must defend them.



And let me add: Our constitutional democracy demands our participation, not just every four years, but all the time. So let's do all we can to keep advancing the causes and values we all hold dear. Making our economy work for everyone, not just those at the top, protecting our country and protecting our planet. And breaking down all the barriers that hold any American back from achieving their dreams. We spent a year and a half bringing together millions of people from every corner of our country to say with one voice that we believe that the American dream is big enough for everyone. For people of all races, and religions, for men and women, for immigrants, for LGBT people, and people with disabilities. For everyone.



So now, our responsibility as citizens, is to keep our part to build that better, stronger, fairer America we seek. And I know you will.  I am so grateful to stand with all of you. I want to thank Tim Kaine and Anne Holton for being our partners on this journey. It has been a joy get to go know them better and gives me great hope and comfort to know that Tim will remain on the front lines of our democracy representing Virginia in the Senate. To Barack and Michelle Obama, our country owes you an enormous debt of gratitude. We thank you for your graceful, determined leadership that has meant so much to so many Americans and people across the world. And to Bill and Chelsea, Mark, Charlotte, Aidan, our brothers and our entire family, my love for you means more than I can ever express. You crisscrossed this country, on our behalf, and lifted me up when I needed it most. Even 4-month-old Aidan, who traveled with his mom. I will always be grateful to the creative, talented, dedicated men and women at our headquarters in Brooklyn and across our country.



You poured your hearts into this campaign. For some of you who are veterans, it was a campaign after you had done other campaigns. Some of you, it was your first campaign. I want each of you to know that you were the best campaign anybody could have ever expected or wanted. And to the millions of volunteers, community leaders, activists and union organizers who knocked on doors, talked to neighbors, posted on Facebook — even in secret private Facebook sites. I want everybody coming out from behind that and make sure your voices are heard going forward. 



To everyone who sent contributions, even as small as $5, that kept us going, thank you. Thank you from  all of us. And to the young people in particular, I hope you will hear this — I have, as Tim said, I have spent my entire adult life fighting for what I believe in. I've had successes and I've had setbacks. Sometimes painful ones. Many of you are at the beginning of your professional, public, and political careers — you will have successes and setbacks too. This loss hurts, but please never stop believing that fighting for what's right is worth it. It is, it is worth it. 



And so we need — we need you to keep up these fights now and for the rest of your lives. And to all the women, and especially the young women, who put their faith in this campaign and in me: I want you to know that nothing has made me prouder than to be your champion. Now, I know we have still not shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling, but someday someone will — and hopefully sooner than we might think right now. 



And to all of the little girls who are watching this, never doubt that you are valuable and powerful and deserving of every chance and opportunity in the world to pursue and achieve your own dreams. 



Finally, finally, I am so grateful for our country and for all it has given to me. I count my blessings every single day that I am an American, and I still believe, as deeply as I ever have, that if we stand together and work together with respect for our differences, strengthen in our convictions, and love for this nation, our best days are still ahead of us.



Because, you know, I believe we are stronger together and we will go forward together. And you should never, ever regret fighting for that. You know, scripture tells us, let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart. So my friends, let us have faith in each other, let us not grow weary and lose heart, for there are more seasons to come and there is more work to do.



I am incredibly honored and grateful to have had this chance to represent all of you in this consequential election. May God bless you and may God bless the United States of America.