To be honest the song is hard for me to listen to considering how tough it was to get through some of these chapters.
The last 8 months have been a time for growth. Happy and healthy. 
It was emotional to see him play me from the outside looking in LonelyVideo.
I have never been political but if you are in the US please register to VOTE. It is more important now then ever.
This year I have had different songs chart 1 , 2, 3, 4, and 5. Thank you.
Thanks for the love on Holy. @chancetherapper and I are partnering with Cash App to give away a total of $250k today to those affected by these hard times. Tell us your story if you feel like sharing.
Search "holy justin bieber reaction" on YouTube.
Just met some great people out here singing in the streets. Nice meeting you
New era. New single. It's begins.
Thanks mtv for the noms
New world tour dates for 2021. Looking forward to seeing you all when it is safe.
I'm joining the GlobalGoalUnite for Our Future concert on June 27th to combat the disproportionate impact COVID-19 has on communities of color and call on world leaders to make testing, treatments & vaccines available to everyone everywhere
Every claim of sexual abuse should be taken very seriously and this is why my response was needed. However this story is factually impossible and that is why I will be working with twitter and authorities to take legal action.
On march 10th selena left for work and I stayed at the Westin as the receipts clearly showed with my friends nick and john before I left town. Once again not at the four seasons. We booked it for a couple days to stay for the defjam show but I bailed on the 11th to head back home.
The Pics I showed of me and Selena march 9 in Austin  should make it clear that we were together that night and went from the venue to our Airbnb and never went to the four seasons. This is our airbnb receipt where we crashed with our friends
We have also confirmed with the Four Seasons regional manager that I was never on property on the 9th of March 2014 and never a guest on the 9th or the 10th and I welcome all press to inquire with them if needed or wanted.
