The Waking Giant, explorer SebCopeland’s stunning photography delivers unparalleled access to the least explored continent on Earth - and demonstrates the threats of global warming. A must-read.
Our democracy is founded on the right to vote and the belief that every vote counts.
Will voters choose the President or The Purge? Investigative reporter Greg_Palast reminds us that we must save our vote - and our democracy. If you have been purged from the polls, you can still register on ElectionDay in some states.
Our democracy should work for everyone - but it takes everyone’s participation.
200 tiny tadpoles have given the world great hope for the Loa Water Frog, a species w/fewer than 20 adults left. The tadpoles hatched a year after a team evacuated the last-known frogs from perilously dry habitat & brought them to the National Zoo of Chile parquemetminvu.
Did you know? You can vote safely and early at arenas across the country. Find your local arena at http://MakeHistoryHere.org
The right to vote is being challenged like never before. We need lawyers to join the fight to protect and secure our elections.
PlantYourChange is an easy way for Americans to join the fight against the climate crisis. Every American can now automatically plant trees by rounding up their purchases a few cents at a time. Sign up for PlantYourChange today and start making a difference.
The CorteConstEcu is hearing a case on the Rights of Nature this week. The decision could affect all protected areas in Ecuador, including a Key Biodiversity Area, Los Cedros Reserve, which is threatened by mining.
Voter Suppression appears in many forms. Here’s what to look out for.
Bradley Cooper is getting out the vote in PA with this helpful list of Do’s & Don’ts
Thank you, Mr. Secretary-General, your excellencies, ladies and gentleman, and distinguished guests. I’m honored to be here today, I stand before you not as an expert but as a concerned citizen, one of the 400,000 people who marched in the streets of New York on Sunday, and the billions of others around the world who want to solve our climate crisis.
As an actor I pretend for a living. I play fictitious characters often solving fictitious problems.
I believe mankind has looked at climate change in that same way: as if it were a fiction, as if pretending that climate change wasn’t real would somehow make it go away.
But I think we know better than that. Every week , we’re seeing new and undeniable climate events, evidence that accelerated climate change is here right now. Droughts are intensifying, our oceans are acidifying, with methane plumes rising up from the ocean floor. We are seeing extreme weather events, and the West Antarctic and Greenland ice-sheets melting at unprecedented rates, decades ahead of scientific projections.
None of this is rhetoric, and none of it is hysteria. It is fact. The scientific community knows it, industry knows it, governments know it, even the United States military knows it. The Chief of the U.S. Navy’s Pacific Command, Admiral Samuel Locklear, recently said that climate change is our single greatest security threat.
My Friends, this body – perhaps more than any other gathering in human history – now faces this difficult, but achievable task. You can make history… or be vilified by it.
To be clear, this is not about telling people to change their light bulbs or buy a hybrid car. This disaster has grown BEYOND the choices that individuals make. This is now about our industries, and governments around the world taking decisive, large-scale action.
Now must be our moment for action.
We need to put a pricetag on carbon emissions, and eliminate government subsidies for oil, coal and gas companies. We need to end the free ride that industrial polluters have been given in the name of a free-market economy, they do not deserve our tax dollars, they deserve our scrutiny. For the economy itself will die if our eco-systems collapse.
The good news is that renewable energy is not only achievable but good economic policy.
This is not a partisan debate; it is a human one. Clean air and a livable climate are inalienable human rights. And solving this crisis is not a question of politics, it is a question of our own survival.
This is the most urgent of times, and the most urgent of messages.
Honored delegates, leaders of the world, I pretend for a living. But you do not.
The people made their voices heard on Sunday around the world and the momentum will not stop. But now it is YOUR turn, the time to answer humankind’s greatest challenge is now.
We beg of you to face it with courage. And honesty. Thank you.
