She who makes the house a home, is the heart of the family, governs with great discernment and NEVER draws attention to herself, shall and must be honored and adored by her most loyal subject.. today..and forever.
Capes, broomsticks, cauldrons... Happy All Hallow's Eve...
Oct 24, 3p ET 12 PT, tune in for an epic virtual rally serving up voting inspiration from youth activists all over the country..Find the stream on http://live.votewith.us and across @youtube & coalition partners’ social media channels.
HBD to this absolute powerhouse. You deserve all the best today...and then a little bit more.
I’ve got questions. Alfre Woodard has the answers. Census ends Sept. 30.
"Fight for the things you care about, but do it in a way that will lead others to join you." RIP, RBG
It's time to stop hate, bigotry, and disinformation. Freeze Instagram today with me.
Mr. Boseman leveled the playing field while fighting for his life... That’s heroism. I’ll remember the good times, the laughter, and the way he changed the game...
It’s all been leading to this! Tune in for the SEASON FINALE of 
@perrymasonhbo at 9pm on @hbo ...stick around and LISTEN CLOSE, there’s a SPECIAL SURPRISE we’ve been saving for the end credits of episode 8.
SPOILER ALERT! Tune in for a Q&A with Matthew Rhys and me before you watch the season finale of @perrymasonhbo this Sunday at 9pm on @hbo... P.S. B.S.-ing about the "spoiler" part. It is, however, an insightful conversation.
Please join Susan Downey and her semi-articulate husband as they discuss Mr. Masons journey from P.I to Esq., and how NO CHARACTER will be unchanged by the end of season 1……
The missus and I are getting ready with a few bits and bobs from Perry’s own Mason Farm. Celebrating local restaurants around since the time of the show. Tune in with us?
Friends don't let friends skip elections. Text FRIENDS to 26797 to make sure you are registered. And tag your friends below to remind them to check their registration.
I promise to pull no punches while interviewing @ColinJost for his book ”A VERY PUNCHABLE FACE”... I will virtually probe and penetrate... please join?
So proud of this amazing project. The Age of A.I. - For Your Emmy® Consideration.
