Some of my favorite fall/winter looks from 2019, when It traveling was still possible
Feeling cute and comfy today. These maternity leggings are from calzedonia link in stories to shop them
We visited Pinacoteca di Brera tonight just ahead of the new lockdown. I promised myself to bring Leo to all the museums in Milan when they open again 
On Sunday morning I explained Leo that matildaferragni is 10 years old and she’s been my first baby and then Leo sat next to her and told me “mum, we’re your two babies”
Love connecting him to art from a young age. I’m starting to bring him to all the museums, starting today from Museo Del Cenacolo Vinciano where we admired “The last supper” by Leonardo da Vinci ,My favorite moments with him
Yesterday LancomexChiaraFerragni beauty live show was incredible lancomeofficial Gonna post it soon on my Instagram tv so you can all watch (or re-watch it) again
Good morning world. Hope this week could be filled with love, no matter the circumstances
Thanks so much to everyone who watched our first live beauty show to present my LancomexChiaraFerragni capsule
Look of the day today from liverpool_mexico. They worked on an amazing campaign celebrating female empowerment

I have always had a thing about sharing my everyday life. I’ve always thought that taking pictures of my outfits, travels around the world and experiences with friends and family could one day evolve into something bigger and more important. I started looking outside Italy and I discovered bloggers from all over the world, and a Californian girl caught my attention. She was taking pictures of herself and her trips around America, and shared these on platforms like Flickr. This inspired me and I started my own blog.

Since the beginning, I  had wanted to play with the idea of a “blonde” doing things, and the idea of “The Blonde Salad” came to mind when I was brainstorming with friends. This year marks the 10th anniversary of The Blonde Salad, and I couldn’t be more proud of how much it has evolved. Now, theblondesalad.com is a talent agency which represents digital native talents, and is also an international lifestyle platform with an integrated e-commerce aspect. I started as a blogger, and then my career evolved to influencer, and now I am a Digital Entrepreneur – I could never have imagined to see my life change so fast.

It has changed completely. When I started my blog, Instagram didn’t even exist. Blogs were beginning to slowly pop up, especially in the USA. The idea of sharing your experiences live and direct wasn’t as big as it is today, and was also very far away from the fashion industry. It was very different from what it is like now. I have to say that the rise of Instagram gave a big boost to my career and business, and is now the social media platform that I use the most.

I try to let people see my everyday life, with my make up on and off, when I am on a set or when I spend my free time with my family and friends, so I think I have a more natural and real look. I believe that social media has to become an easier space for people to share real experiences and realistic material, without faking it.

I’ve had haters since the beginning, not just from Instagram. When I started and I was joined my first catwalks, I was one of the few younger women in the industry, and the fashion world was a really niche and small at the time. I heard so many harsh comments, the most common was things along the lines of “she won’t last more than 6 months”. Now that I use Instagram as my natural way of documenting my everyday, I always have to face hate comments. At the beginning, this worried me and made me feel so bad, but one day I realized that what I am doing is okay and that I am always working to reach my goals. I am always trying to spread positive messages through social media but at the end of the day, I can’t please everyone and this is something that you really have to be aware of. I try as much as I can to always answer in a smart way to haters, and I have learned from their comments to push myself to do always better.

