The new Rouje collection is here and we were very excited to launch it.. Especially during this period, I wanted something full of colors, bright and soft with a lot of flowers 
Hope you will like it ! (Link in bio)
Welcome to Le Stylo, our new baby from the rouje beauty family. A creamy and playful beauty jewel to carry with you every day.
Head to the link in bio to discover it.
With the studio, we work since a few months on a complete and timeless every day life rouje accessories line. They are made to last Which one is your favorite ?
When your neighbor is the beautiful soul and amazing artist.
Back to school at rouje studio and D-4 before our first drop of the season 
Head to the link in bio to discover it first
Proud that the rouje solidarity collection I’ve created with my friend and artist ninakoltchitskaia to support lamaisondesfemmes93 is launched today 
100% of the benefits will be donated to lamaisondesfemmes93
Link in bio and story.

“We’re all working from home now and have already finished designing the next fall/winter collection. There are collections that are in production currently, so we’re trying to plan out future photo shoots.
“I love the knitwear that we’ve developed, which I think are very cute and so soft. We like to pair them with our bodysuits or tank tops that you can also wear under a dress or with a skirt or jeans.”
“Everywhere! Women in the streets, my mother, my friends, movies.”
“I get dressed in two minutes, and it’s the same for makeup. It’s actually always me who waits for my fiancé in the morning. I know exactly what I’m going to wear, and I have some go-to uniforms that I rely on, so I don’t have to spend too much time thinking about it.”
“I like to dress with slight juxtapositions. I feel contradictions create the right balance. A mix of nostalgia and modernity, masculine and feminine, or casual and elegant.
“For example, if I’m wearing a t-shirt and jeans, I’ll put on a coral lipstick and add pearl hoops. Or if I am wearing a wrap dress with heeled mules, I’ll throw my boyfriend’s oversized jacket on top—or one of the boyfriend jackets I designed for Rouje precisely to get that effect.”
“I can’t wait to wear nothing at all and jump into the ocean! But in Paris, it’s all about comfort for me, and I’m excited to wear a wrap dress or flowing pants with a blouse while I roam the streets and drink cafés on terraces with my loved ones again.”
“Dresses! I like the ability to get ready in five minutes or less. My go-to is a classic wrap dress, like our popular Gabin dress. They’re flattering for every body type and easy to lounge in.
“The Rouje spring/summer collection has one of my new favorites, the Mathilda dress, which is a perfect flowing shirtdress in floral patterns with a tie at the waist and pretty pearl-like buttons.
“Also, I’m very excited about our new dress styles, including the return of our iconic Laura, a midi-length dress with a strong waist, soft neckline, and bows on each sleeve.”
“A lot has changed and evolved since we started. We were a team of three squatting at a friend’s office the first year. Now there are around 30 of us at Rouje, and we have a studio and our own office space near our flagship store and restaurant.
“I’m quite proud of what we have achieved, and I would really like to nurture the family we’ve built and the brand authenticity, which are such a huge part of the success of Rouje. I work with people that I feel a close connection to.
“I’m learning new things every day since launching Rouje, all different sides of the business, and I manage my brand while always following my instinct and vision, which has gotten me here. I’m proud of my team and our collective hard work. Nothing can be done alone. I’ve always believed in the people and chance encounters that have shaped my journey.”
