Was planning this stupid (poetic) slideshow of egg pictures — shells (1, 2) becoming whole (3, 4) again and then I dropped the whole egg (5). WHAT DOES IT MEAN
As of last week, Repeller, formerly Man Repeller is closed. I (really) look forward to memorializing the decade long relationship we developed (indisputably, MR would not have been possible without the people it employed and the community that gathered around it) but for right now, if anyone reading this is looking for creative and incredibly hardworking talent, please dm me. You’d be lucky to get a chance to work with any member of the team that was let go.
I deleted the original caption for this post because it embarrassed me. It was honest, but not authentic. I don’t think I ever realized there was a difference before right now (9:02pm, Sat night, oct 3)
According to iamavoter, voting season starts today. I’m filling out mail in then going to a drop box (not to be confused with Dropbox) to drop it off IRL. 10/10 will wear something dramatic. Maybe the evolved version of.
Madeline just asked if this marble fruit is a “buhjyna.” So pleased.
A walking reminder for Nov. 3 and a sitting reminder that button flies are hard

I think that I've always had a really deep curiosity about aesthetics. I don't know, necessarily, that I was able to compute that it was fashion when I was really young, but I know that I always cared about how people looked. I noticed shoes on women when I was walking home from school, and I took great interest in my mother's closet. But I don't think I knew that it was fashion that I was interested in until I was a little bit older, maybe like 12 or 13.
The personal style blogging piece was actually a curiously happy accident. Before Man Repeller, I ran a site called Four Months in Paris, which was just documentation of the time that I was spending during my semester abroad. I was studying journalism in school and I really loved that the site was giving me an opportunity to write edit-free, because I'd submit something for publication and then it would come back with so many red marks on it, and I was like, "Oh, you're ruining what makes this piece interesting and funny. Why are you watering it down?" The fact that I was able to write without anyone reading it before I could hit publish just felt super, super liberating. 
To be honest, it was wild. Six months after I launched, The New York Times profiled me, and I was like, "Well, this is as good as it's going to get, and if this is as good as it's going to get, that's good enough. How many people get to say that they were profiled by The New York Times? This was such an incredible and happy accident that happened to me, and for sure it's going to help me get a job." Then the opportunities just kept rolling in and rolling in. Of course, I had no idea that it was going to turn into anything. I definitely knew that I have a smart and strong business mind, and that if it did gain traction I would absolutely figure out a way to monetize it, but I didn't launch it with the intention of it becoming a financial pursuit.
What's really unique about that New York Times profile is that, in the first six months that I was in business, there was a ton of interest about Man Repeller, but nobody wanted to be aligned with a name like Man Repeller. There was definitely a lot of market teaching that was required. But after The New York Times gave me that fashion thumbs up, I feel like brands felt a little bit more comfortable aligning themselves with me.
It was like the Wild West back then, because you'd go viral for having good content; it still felt a lot like a meritocracy in a way that it doesn't anymore. It was really cool and really special. I remember some mornings waking up and having, like, 2,000 new Twitter followers because of some random blog that had linked to me the night before, or a Twitter celebrity who had @-ed me in a tweet. Those kind of things just don't happen anymore. I remember those moments as being like, "Wow, I can't believe this can happen on the internet."
When I launched Man Repeller, Instagram didn't exist yet; the main portal I was using to promote my content was Twitter. When I launched Man Repeller, what I was doing was essentially just commenting on fashion trends that I found to be man repellent, and every now and then I would post a photo of myself in a pair of shoes or trying on a jacket. They were really low-fi pictures, but those stories always gained so much more traction than the ones without pictures of me in them.
