When he looks at you vs. when he looks away
THIS THURSDAY!!! AHHHH Can’t believe I’m gonna be performing “Se Te Nota” on fallontonight. SO GRATEFUL FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY !!

IM SCREAMINGGGG OMG... can’t even put into words how happy I am right now !! Thank you to my incredible team johnny sammy interscope and to all my supporters for all the love! Shoutout to guaynaa for being the best of the best and for believing in this song !
ALWAYS KNEW THIS DAY WOULD COME

I think it’s the people I surround myself with. My family has dealt with a celebrity before so they know what to do to block off the personal life. On one side, be professional and the other side be personal. I don’t like to include so much of my personal life with my business. I’m gonna tell you the truth: I wasn’t always humble. When I became famous around 20, I thought because I was famous nothing could touch me. I could do whatever I want. I was treating people bad to be honest, until my family literally came up to me and was like ‘Listen, wake up. You’re this girl. You’re not better than anybody else.’ I lost a lot of people - a lot of friends. That’s what made me click, you know what I mean? It’s important to be humble. The world doesn’t revolve around you. Many things happened that actually made me realize that. I went through some stuff and I behaved in some ways that, right now looking back, I regret so much. I’m gonna be honest, I was at that point in my life where I was like ‘oh no I’m famous’ I didn’t even go to therapy yet - I believed that I was invincible. I wasn’t very humble. Over time, my experience, my family, the people I surrounded myself with - the types of friends, the energy, the positivity that they bring… I think that’s what makes me so authentic now. El piso, my mom says. Also, living with my mom helps me a lot. I didn’t come to L.A. - which is a very toxic place - alone. She is a doctor. She doesn’t care about this world [celebrity], so she sees it from another perspective and that’s what helps me. I don’t take myself seriously, as well, since I was little.
 That’s what I’m saying. People want to be perfect or the version that they’re not on Instagram. I’m so tired of that. The more real and relatable you are the more they’re gonna like you. That’s who I would support. I like people like Cardi B. She speaks her mind. She doesn’t care. She eats all the time on her IG live with her hands all oily. I like that because we’re really used to a lot of people being like ‘oh I’m so perfect.’ I’m just like, listen: I have cellulite. I try to explain to people it’s OK. Sometimes people put you on a pedestal. No, I’m exactly the same. I’m no different and that’s very important. And I believe that too. I didn’t a long time ago, but I believe it. I am not famous - I’m just me. And that’s who I am on social media. Sometimes I’m hungry. Sometimes I have a bloated stomach. Sometimes I don’t wear makeup. I show my cellulite.

Since Vine days I’ve been doing a lot of stunts. I think it’s because in middle school I really wanted a lot of friends. My friends were the ‘mean girls.’ They were like, ‘make us laugh, make us laugh.’ I didn‘t really know how to talk in English, so I’d be, like, doing stuff physically. I’d fall… it got stuck to me. I actually became really good. I learned how to do it without getting hurt. I incorporated that in my Vines because it was the only way for me to be like ‘oh they like me when I don’t talk, but I do stuff physically.’ I still do it sometimes, not as much. I do it because I feel like physical comedy is international. You don’t have to know the language to understand it. I don’t know why I haven’t broken a bone. I drink a lot of milk [laughs].
