So excited to be on the judging panel of the nanushka Design for Life Mentorship programme, a competition aimed at supporting young fashion talent from the Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities.

I studied fashion design at Central St. Martin’s College and just kind of fell into buying after I finished school. I was never formally trained as a buyer. I think actual experience in the field is the most important thing to becoming a buyer! Of course, formal training is a good way to kickstart.
A good fashion buyer should understand the customer well and also their needs. And also, make the best selection that represents the brand and the business. It is important that your buy has a point of view. Buying is not just picking what you like from the show, but you need to have a good level of understanding of your business and customer to identify what is needed. Sometimes I feel like I work in finance more than fashion! There is a lot of hard work behind the glamorous fashion shows!
Again, understanding your customer and your business needs are important. However, I have been very lucky that all the businesses I have worked with allows me to express my point of view. It’s all about finding the balance.
Being super efficient is the key, and of course, you really have to concentrate to get through the buy! I don’t really have a formula, but it makes things a lot easier if you have a good understanding of the brand structure that you are buying. We also read a lot of analysis prior to our appointments to help us make the best selection.
Being super efficient is the key, and of course, you really have to concentrate to get through the buy! I don’t really have a formula, but it makes things a lot easier if you have a good understanding of the brand structure that you are buying. We also read a lot of analysis prior to our appointments to help us make the best selection.
Products are presented in a very different way. For a store, you have to really think about how everything looks together on a rack, and we have to consider the space. Whereas for e-commerce, there are less limitations in that sense. But we do have to think which items photograph well and whether we can translate the details [on a piece] well enough with just pictures.
