When I was a kid, the disaster we worried about most was a nuclear war. That’s why we had a barrel like this down in our basement, filled with cans of food and water. When the nuclear attack came, we were supposed to go downstairs, hunker down, and eat out of that barrel. Today, the greatest risk of global catastrophe doesn’t look like this. Instead, it looks like this. If anything kills over 10 million people in the next few decades, it’s most likely to be a highly infectious virus rather than a war. Not missiles, but microbes.

Now, part of the reason for this is that we have invested a huge amount in nuclear deterrence, but we’ve actually invested very little in a system to stop an epidemic. We’re not ready for the next epidemic. Let’s look at Ebola. I’m sure all of you read about it in the newspaper. Lots of tough challenges. I followed it carefully through the case analysis tools we use to track polio eradication. And as you look at what went on, the problem wasn’t that there was a system that didn’t work well enough. The problem was that we didn’t have a system at all.

In fact, there are some pretty obvious key missing pieces. We didn’t have a group of epidemiologists ready to go who would have gone, seen what the disease was, see how far it had spread. The case reports came in on paper. It was very delayed before they were put online, and they were extremely inaccurate. We didn’t have a medical team ready to go. We didn’t have a way of preparing people. Now, Medecins Sans Frontieres did a great job orchestrating volunteers, but even so, we were far slower than we should have been getting the thousands of workers into these countries. And a large epidemic would require us to have hundreds of thousands of workers.

There was no one there to look at treatment approaches. No one to look at the diagnostics, no one to figure out what tools should be used. As an example, we could have taken the blood of survivors, processed it, and put that plasma back in people to protect them, but that was never tried. So there was a lot that was missing, and these things are really a global failure. The WHO is funded to monitor epidemics, but not to do these things I talked about. Now in the movies, it’s quite different. There’s a group of handsome epidemiologists ready to go. They move in, they save the day, but that’s just pure Hollywood. The failure to prepare could allow the next epidemic to be dramatically more devastating than Ebola.

Let’s look at the progression of Ebola over this year. About 10,000 people died, and nearly all were in the three West African countries. There’s three reasons why it didn’t spread more. The first is there was a lot of heroic work by the health workers. They found the people and they prevented more infections. The second is the nature of the virus. Ebola does not spread through the air, and by the time you’re contagious, most people are so sick that they’re bedridden. Third, it didn’t get into many urban areas, and that was just luck. If it had gotten into a lot more urban areas, the case numbers would have been much larger. So next time we might not be so lucky.

You can have a virus where people feel well enough while they’re infectious that they get on a plane or they go to a market. The source of the virus could be a natural epidemic like Ebola or it could be bio-terrorism. And so there are things that would literally make things a thousand times worse. In fact, let’s look at a model of a virus spread through the air, like the Spanish flu back in 1918.

So here’s what would happen. It would spread throughout the world very, very quickly. And you can see there’s over 30 million people die from that epidemic. So this is a serious problem. We should be concerned. But in fact, we can build a really good response system. We have the benefits of all the science and technology that we talked about here. We’ve got cell phones to get information from the public and get information out to them. We have satellite maps where we can see where people are and where they’re moving. We have advances in biology that should dramatically change the turnaround time to look at a pathogen and be able to make drugs and vaccines that fit for that pathogen. So we can have tools, but those tools need to be put into an overall global health system, and we need preparedness.

The best lessons I think on how to get prepared or again, what we do for war. For soldiers, we have full time waiting to go. We have reserves that can scale us up to large numbers. And NATO has a mobile unit that can deploy very rapidly. NATO does a lot of war games to check, are people well trained? Do they understand about fuel and logistics and the same radio frequencies? So they are absolutely ready to go. So those are the kinds of things we need to deal with an epidemic.

What are the key pieces? First is we need strong health systems in poor countries. That’s where mothers can give birth safely. Kids could get all their vaccines, but also where we’ll see the outbreak very early on. We need a medical reserve corps. Lots of people who’ve got the training and background who are ready to go with the expertise. And then we need to pair those medical people with the military, taking advantage of the military’s ability to move fast, do logistics and secure areas.

We need to do simulations, germ games, not war games so that we see where the holes are. The last time a germ game was done in the United States was back in 2001, and it didn’t go so well. So far the score is germs one, people zero. Finally, we need lots of advanced R&D in areas of vaccines and diagnostics. There are some big breakthroughs like adeno-associated virus that could work very, very quickly.

Now, I don’t have an exact budget for what this would cost, but I’m quite sure it’s very modest compared to the potential harm. The world bank estimates that if we have a worldwide flu epidemic, global wealth will go down by over $3 trillion, and we’d have millions and millions of deaths. These investments offer significant benefits beyond just being ready for the epidemic. The primary health care, the R&D, those things would reduce global health equity and make the world more just as well as more safe.

So I think this should absolutely be a priority. There’s no need to panic. We don’t have to hoard cans of spaghetti or go down into the basement, but we need to get going because time is not on our side. In fact, if there’s one positive thing that can come out of the Ebola epidemic, it’s that it can serve is an early warning, a wake-up call to get ready. If we start now, we can be ready for the next epidemic. Thank you.

President Bok, former President Rudenstine, incoming President Faust, members of the Harvard corporation and the board of overseers. Members of the faculty, parents and especially the graduates.
I’ve been waiting more than 30 years to say this: “Dad, I always told you I’d come back and get my degree.”
I want to thank Harvard for this honor. I’ll be changing my job next year and it will be nice to finally have a college degree on my resume.
I applaud the graduates for taking a much more direct route to your degrees.
For my part, I’m just happy that the Crimson called me Harvard’s most successful drop out.
I guess that makes me valedictorian of my own special class. I did the best of everyone who failed.
But I also want to be recognized as the guy who got Steve Balmer to drop out of business school.
I’m a bad influence. That’s why I was invited to speak at your graduation.
If I’d spoken at your orientation, fewer of you might be here today.

Harvard was a phenomenal experience for me. Academic life was fascinating.
I used to sit in on lots of classes that I hadn’t even signed up for. And dorm life was terrific. I lived up at Radcliffe, in Courier House.
There were always a lot of people in my dorm room late at night discussing things, because everyone knew that I didn’t worry about getting up in the morning.
That’s how I came to be the leader of the antisocial group. We clunged each other as a way of validating our rejection of all those social people.

Radcliffe was a great place to live. There were more women up there and most of the guys were math-science types. The combination offered me the best odds, if you know what I mean.
That’s where I learned the sad lesson that improving your odds doesn’t guarantee you success.
One of my biggest memories of Harvard came in January 1975. When I made a call from Courier House to a company in Albuquerque, New Mexico, that had begun making the world’s first personal computer. I offered to sell them software.
I worried they would realize I was just a student in a dorm and hang up on me. Instead they said, we’re not quite ready, come see us in a month. Which was a good thing because we hadn’t written the software yet.
From that moment I worked day and night on the extra credit project that marked the end of my college education and the beginning of a remarkable journey with Microsoft.
What I remember above all about Harvard, was being in the midst of so much energy and intelligence. It could be exhilarating, intimidating, sometimes even discouraging but always challenging.
It was an amazing privilege and though I left early, I was transformed by my years at Harvard, the friendships I made and the ideas I worked on.
But taking a serious look back, I do have one big regret.
I left Harvard with no real awareness of the awful inequities in the world, appalling disparities of health and wealth, and opportunity, that condemn millions of people to lives of despair.
I learned a lot here at Harvard about new ideas in economics and politics. I got great exposure to the advances being made in the sciences.
But humanity’s greatest advances are not in its discoveries, but in how those discoveries are applied to reduce inequity.
Whether through democracy, strong public education, quality healthcare or broad economic opportunity, reducing inequity is the highest human achievement.

I left campus knowing little about the millions of young people cheated out of educational opportunities here in this country.
And I knew nothing about the millions of people living in unspeakable poverty and disease in developing countries. It took me decades to find out.
You graduates came to Harvard at a different time. You know more about the world’s inequities than the classes that came before.
In your years here I hope you’ve had a chance to think about how in this age of accelerating technology we can finally take on these inequities and we can solve them.
Imagine just for the sake of discussion that you have a few hours a week and a few dollars a month to donate to a cause. And you wanted to spend that time and money where it would have the greatest impact in saving and improving lives.
Where would you spend it?
For Melinda and I the challenge is the same. How can we do the most good for the greatest number with the resources we have?
During our discussions on this question, Melinda and I read an article about the millions of children who are dying every year in poor countries from diseases that we have long ago made harmless in this country.
Measles, malaria, pneumonia, hepatitis-B, yellow fever.
One disease that I had never heard of, rotavirus, was killing half a million children each year. None of them in the United States.
We were shocked.
We had assumed that if millions of children were dying and they could be saved, the world would make it a priority to discover and deliver the medicines to save them. But it did not.
For under a dollar there were interventions that could save lives that just weren’t being delivered.
If you believe that every life has equal value, it’s revolting to learn that some lives are seen as worth saving and others are not.

We said to ourselves this can’t be true, but if it is true it deserves to be the priority of our giving.
So we began our work in the same way anyone here would begin it. We asked: how could the world let these children die?
The answer is simple and harsh. The market did not reward saving the lives of these children and governments did not subsidize it. So the children die because their mothers and fathers had no power in the market and no voice in the system.
But you and I have both. We can make market forces work better for the poor if we can develop a more creative capitalism.
If we can stretch the reach of market forces so that more people can make a profit or at least earn a living, serving people who are suffering from the great inequities.


