I couldn't think of anything more important to teach than compassion. In a sense, compassion should be the platform upon which everything else is taught, especially in the modern era, especially with this increasing narrative about “us versus them.”

It's something I learned from David Gergen, who was a White House communications director for both Republican and Democrat presidents – which gives you an indication of how valuable people thought he was.

In describing what makes for an effective communicator, especially to a large group, David Gergen would say that you need to repeat yourself so often that you get sick of hearing yourself say it. And only then will people begin to internalize the message.

I think all effective leaders understand the importance and power of repetition. And it's counterintuitive, because once you say it just a second time, you start getting bored of it, and you just project that boredom onto the audience. You just assume that people have heard it before. They don't want to hear it again. But they've got their own priorities, they're focused on other things. And so that repetition is actually really important.

As a former consultant, I did understand where it could add value, and where it didn't necessarily add value. There's an old adage that sometimes consultants will take your watch and tell you what time it is. And so, like a lot of people, I was just skeptical.

Sure enough, one member after another from my leadership team who was going through the program said to me – without realizing that other members of the team had relayed the same sentiments – that this was different, it was special, and it was really, really valuable.

I had never heard anyone write or speak like that on the subject of management or leadership or team-building, how important it is to remain mindful and conscious.

WEINER: I can't recall if he used the word “compassion” specifically, but that was
certainly implicit in all of the messaging. How important it was to get out of your own head, to be a spectator to your own thoughts, especially when you become emotional. To put yourself in the shoes of the people that you're working with, to understand where they're coming from, their strengths, their weaknesses.

WEINER: The two of us got together for dinner and I was talking about what I wanted to do next. And I didn't know specifically, but I had a sense of a personal vision I was interested in pursuing. And that was to help expand the world's collective wisdom. Fred sat back, and he said, “That's really interesting. I can see why you're excited about that. But wisdom without compassion is ruthlessness, and compassion without wisdom is folly.” And it just stopped me right in my tracks. And I said, “Wow, Fred, is that the Dalai Lama?” And he said, “No, that's me after a couple of Belgian beers.”

It was one of those moments where your worldview changes in an instant. And it was literally in that moment that I decided I was going to evolve that personal vision statement. And to this day, my personal vision statement is to help expand the world's collective wisdom and compassion.

So I took the time to meet with literally every person of the company. At 330 employees, it was still manageable. That would be a lot more time-consuming today. And so before I decided on any plans going forward, I wanted to make sure I understood what was happening, and I wanted to learn as much as possible from the people who had developed the company up until that point.

It's really important when coming into a situation like that, where you take time to recognize the work that had come before you, to not only acknowledge the good work but also double down on it. As opposed to coming in and thinking, “Okay, I'm new, everything that came before me must have been broken, and I'm going to create a narrative where everyone understands that, and now the good stuff starts.”

When I think about what makes for an environment or a team that is inspired or inspiring, it comes down to three things. One is the clarity of vision. Two is the courage of one's conviction. And three is the ability to effectively communicate those two things.
And if you don't feel that authentically, if you're just saying the words but you don't believe it deep down, if it's not there and in every fiber of your being, there's no way people are going to sign up for that journey.

I just thought it was so important on that day to reinforce to the team and the company that while the stock price was lower, that was the only thing that had changed. We still have the same mission, we still have the same vision, we still have the same culture and values, we still have the same leadership. And that none of that would change as a result of the decline, that the work we were doing was more important than ever, and that we shouldn't get defocused by virtue of a stock price decline. So that was the thinking behind that day's all-hands.

For us, the narrative begins with a framework that we use, called “From Vision to Values.” It starts at the top. The vision is the dream, it's true north. We delineate between the vision and the mission, insofar as the mission is a singular overarching objective that is measurable, realizable, and then hopefully inspirational. So that delineates the mission from the vision. That's the "what". The vision or the mission are our "what." And the culture and the values are the "how", they're how we go about doing what we do.